SETUP_COVERAGE.md, before:

# Quick Setup: Code Coverage Badge

## What Was Added

✅ **Real code coverage** measurement with bashcov
✅ **Dynamic badge** that auto-updates after each push
✅ **Codecov integration** for detailed reports (optional)
✅ **macOS-only coverage** to keep CI fast on all platforms

## Next Steps (After First Push)

### 1. Enable GitHub Pages (Required)

This allows the badge to read coverage data from `gh-pages` branch.

1. Push these changes to `main` branch
2. Wait for macOS workflow to complete (~3-5 minutes)
3. Go to: **Settings → Pages**
4. Set:
   - Source: **Deploy from a branch**
   - Branch: **gh-pages** / **root**
5. Click **Save**

**The badge will start working within 5-10 minutes after enabling Pages.**

### 2. Add Codecov Token (Optional)

For detailed coverage reports at https://codecov.io/

1. Go to https://codecov.io/ and sign in with GitHub
2. Click **Add Repository** → Find `claude-notifications`
3. Copy the **Repository Upload Token**
4. In GitHub: **Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions**
5. Click **New repository secret**:
   - Name: `CODECOV_TOKEN`
   - Value: (paste token)

**Note:** The dynamic badge works without this step. This is only for detailed web reports.

## What to Expect

### First Run

After pushing to main:

1. ✅ macOS Tests workflow runs (~5-7 minutes)
2. ✅ Coverage is measured with bashcov
3. ✅ `coverage-badge.json` is created
4. ✅ JSON is deployed to `gh-pages` branch
5. ⏳ Wait 5-10 minutes for GitHub Pages to update
6. ✅ Badge in README shows coverage percentage

### Badge Format

The badge will show:

```
coverage: 73.5% | 148 tests
```

**Colors:**
- 🟢 Green (80%+) - Excellent
- 🟢 Light Green (60-79%) - Good
- 🟡 Yellow (40-59%) - Needs work
- 🔴 Red (<40%) - Poor

### Typical Coverage for Bash

**Don't expect 90%+!** For bash projects:
- 60-70% is **good**
- 70-80% is **excellent**
- 80%+ is **exceptional**

Bash coverage is tricky due to sourcing, subshells, and helper functions.

## Verifying Setup

### Check Workflow

1. Go to **Actions** tab
2. Click latest **macOS Tests** run
3. Look for these steps:
   - ✅ Install bashcov for coverage
   - ✅ Run tests with coverage
   - ✅ Generate coverage badge JSON
   - ✅ Deploy badge to gh-pages

### Check gh-pages Branch

1. Switch to `gh-pages` branch
2. You should see `coverage-badge.json`:

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 1,
  "label": "coverage",
  "message": "73.5% | 148 tests",
  "color": "brightgreen"
}
```

### Check Badge

Wait 5-10 minutes after first deploy, then refresh README. Badge should show:

```
[coverage: XX.X% | 148 tests]
```

Click it to visit Codecov (if configured).

## Troubleshooting

### Badge shows "invalid"

- Wait 10 minutes for GitHub Pages to activate
- Check that `gh-pages` branch exists
- Verify Pages is enabled in Settings

### Badge not updating after push

- Ensure you pushed to `main` branch
- Check Actions tab for workflow errors
- PRs don't update the badge (only pushes to main)

### Coverage is 0%

- Check macOS workflow logs for bashcov errors
- Verify tests are actually running
- Look for "Coverage report not found" error

## Local Testing

Test coverage locally on macOS:

```bash
# Install bashcov
gem install bashcov simplecov

# Run tests with coverage
bashcov --root . ./test/run-tests.sh

# View HTML report
open coverage/index.html
```

## Documentation

- [Full Coverage Guide](docs/coverage-setup.md) - Detailed explanation
- [Testing Documentation](docs/testing.md) - Test architecture

## Summary

After your first push to main:

1. ⏱️ Wait for macOS workflow (~5-7 min)
2. ⚙️ Enable GitHub Pages in Settings
3. ⏱️ Wait 5-10 min for Pages to deploy
4. ✅ Badge shows coverage!

**Optional:** Add `CODECOV_TOKEN` secret for detailed web reports.

That's it! 🎉

Commit message:

docs: Enhance README and setup coverage documentation
- Updated the README to clarify test coverage metrics and the challenges of measuring bash code coverage, providing users with a better understanding of the coverage badge.
- Revised the setup coverage documentation to reflect the new coverage measurement process, including details on potential issues and the format of the coverage badge.
- Improved the CI workflow documentation to specify the conditions under which coverage data may not be available, ensuring users are informed about the limitations of bash coverage.

These changes aim to improve the clarity and usability of the documentation, helping users better understand the project's testing and coverage reporting processes.

SETUP_COVERAGE.md, after:

# Quick Setup: Code Coverage Badge

## What Was Added

✅ **Real code coverage** measurement with bashcov
✅ **Dynamic badge** that auto-updates after each push
✅ **Codecov integration** for detailed reports (optional)
✅ **macOS-only coverage** to keep CI fast on all platforms

## Next Steps (After First Push)

### 1. Enable GitHub Pages (Required)

This allows the badge to read coverage data from `gh-pages` branch.

1. Push these changes to `main` branch
2. Wait for macOS workflow to complete (~3-5 minutes)
3. Go to: **Settings → Pages**
4. Set:
   - Source: **Deploy from a branch**
   - Branch: **gh-pages** / **root**
5. Click **Save**

**The badge will start working within 5-10 minutes after enabling Pages.**

### 2. Add Codecov Token (Optional)

For detailed coverage reports at https://codecov.io/

1. Go to https://codecov.io/ and sign in with GitHub
2. Click **Add Repository** → Find `claude-notifications`
3. Copy the **Repository Upload Token**
4. In GitHub: **Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions**
5. Click **New repository secret**:
   - Name: `CODECOV_TOKEN`
   - Value: (paste token)

**Note:** The dynamic badge works without this step. This is only for detailed web reports.

## What to Expect

### First Run

After pushing to main:

1. ✅ macOS Tests workflow runs (~5-7 minutes)
2. ⚙️ Attempts to measure coverage with bashcov
3. ✅ `coverage-badge.json` is created (with coverage % OR test count)
4. ✅ JSON is deployed to `gh-pages` branch
5. ⏳ Wait 5-10 minutes for GitHub Pages to update
6. ✅ Badge in README shows result

### Badge Format

**If coverage measurement succeeds:**
```
tests: 73.5% | 148 tests
```

**If coverage measurement fails (common for bash):**
```
tests: 148 tests
```

**Colors:**
- 🟢 Green (80%+ coverage) - Excellent
- 🟢 Light Green (60-79% coverage) - Good
- 🟡 Yellow (40-59% coverage) - Needs work
- 🔴 Red (<40% coverage) - Poor
- 🔵 Blue (test count only) - Coverage measurement unavailable

### Why Coverage Might Not Work

Bash code coverage is technically challenging:
- **Sourced files** - bashcov may not track sourced lib/ files correctly
- **Subshells** - Code in `$()` may not be measured
- **Helper functions** - Utility code may not be instrumented

**This is normal!** The badge will still show the test count (148 tests), which is a valid quality metric.

### Typical Coverage for Bash

**Don't expect 90%+!** For bash projects:
- 60-70% is **good**
- 70-80% is **excellent**
- 80%+ is **exceptional**

Bash coverage is tricky due to sourcing, subshells, and helper functions.

## Verifying Setup

### Check Workflow

1. Go to **Actions** tab
2. Click latest **macOS Tests** run
3. Look for these steps:
   - ✅ Install bashcov for coverage
   - ✅ Run tests with coverage
   - ✅ Generate coverage badge JSON
   - ✅ Deploy badge to gh-pages

### Check gh-pages Branch

1. Switch to `gh-pages` branch
2. You should see `coverage-badge.json`:

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 1,
  "label": "coverage",
  "message": "73.5% | 148 tests",
  "color": "brightgreen"
}
```

### Check Badge

Wait 5-10 minutes after first deploy, then refresh README. Badge should show:

```
[coverage: XX.X% | 148 tests]
```

Click it to visit Codecov (if configured).

## Troubleshooting

### Badge shows "invalid"

- Wait 10 minutes for GitHub Pages to activate
- Check that `gh-pages` branch exists
- Verify Pages is enabled in Settings

### Badge not updating after push

- Ensure you pushed to `main` branch
- Check Actions tab for workflow errors
- PRs don't update the badge (only pushes to main)

### Coverage is 0%

- Check macOS workflow logs for bashcov errors
- Verify tests are actually running
- Look for "Coverage report not found" error

## Local Testing

Test coverage locally on macOS:

```bash
# Install bashcov
gem install bashcov simplecov

# Run tests with coverage
bashcov --root . ./test/run-tests.sh

# View HTML report
open coverage/index.html
```

## Documentation

- [Full Coverage Guide](docs/coverage-setup.md) - Detailed explanation
- [Testing Documentation](docs/testing.md) - Test architecture

## Summary

After your first push to main:

1. ⏱️ Wait for macOS workflow (~5-7 min)
2. ⚙️ Enable GitHub Pages in Settings
3. ⏱️ Wait 5-10 min for Pages to deploy
4. ✅ Badge shows coverage!

**Optional:** Add `CODECOV_TOKEN` secret for detailed web reports.

That's it! 🎉
